---
layout: post
type: article
support: journal
link: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.07170.pdf
title: Powered Dirichlet-Hawkes Process - Challenging Textual Clustering using a Flexible Temporal Prior
authors: <b>G. Poux-Médard</b>, J. Velcin, S. Loudcher
journal: Knowledge and Information Systems (KAIS)
year: 2022
doi: 
date: 2022-09-01
description: # Add post description (optional)
img: articles/covers/23-PDHP-KAIS.png
fig-caption: The appearance of a document (news, tweet, article, etc.) is conditioned by its semantic content, 
 but also by its publication date wrt previous articles' ones, to a certain extent. 
 By varying r, we can choose whether to focus our clustering algorithm more on the 
 temporal side or more on the semantic side, or a mixture of both. 
 Here we show how we retrieve either temporal or textual clusters when these two
 pieces of information are not perfectly correlated.
tags: [clustering, temporal bayesian prior, powered dirichlet process, hawkes process, dirichlet-hawkes process, PDP, dirichlet]
---

This publication is an extended version of a previously published article: 
<a href="{{ "/PDHP" | prepend: site.url }}">Powered Dirichlet-Hawkes Process article</a> (ICDM 2021)

The textual content of a document and its publication date are intertwined. 
For example, the publication of a news article on a topic is influenced by 
previous publications on similar issues, according to underlying temporal 
dynamics. However, it can be challenging to retrieve meaningful information 
when textual information conveys little information or when temporal dynamics 
are hard to unveil. Furthermore, the textual content of a document is not 
always linked to its temporal dynamics.
We develop a flexible method to create clusters of textual documents 
according to both their content and publication time, the Powered 
Dirichlet-Hawkes process (PDHP). We show PDHP yields significantly 
better results than state-of-the-art models when temporal information 
or textual content is weakly informative. The PDHP also alleviates the 
hypothesis that textual content and temporal dynamics are always perfectly 
correlated. PDHP allows retrieving textual clusters, temporal clusters, 
or a mixture of both with high accuracy when they are not. We demonstrate 
that PDHP generalizes previous work --such as the Dirichlet-Hawkes process 
(DHP) and Uniform process (UP). Finally, we illustrate the changes induced 
by PDHP over DHP and UP in a real-world application using Reddit data.